Let's take this repo, and you're never
gonna guess what we're gonna do.
We are gonna clone, but
we're gonna bisect as well.
You would never have guessed that,
would you?
All right, so
if you don't have the course open,
it's just
github.com/ThePrimeagen/git-bisect.
So you can go to GitHub and go grab that.
So we're here,
now we kinda have a classic problem.
This happens about once, twice, a few
times a year, where you have to do this,
where there's a whole bunch of commits and
something has gone wrong.
You don't know when it's gone wrong,
you just know a while back, it's good, and
currently, it's bad.
And you wanna find out exactly
when did something go wrong.
And so this is called git bisect.
It's not a common problem,
but I definitely run into it.
And the longer your testing cycle is,
the more you should know that this exists.
Because if it takes you one second, I'm
sure there's a bunch of people are just
walking back ten commits at a time,
they don't even know git bisect exists.
So therefore, they're just like,
I don't have to care.
But if you have a ten minute
testing cycle, all of a sudden,
you wanna be as efficient as possible,
right?
So, but there's a lot of
different ways we could do this.
One cool thing is with logs,
you can actually search through logs.
And this is kind of a neat technique in
the sense that if you just wanna find
a change around a particular component.
And everyone does a pretty decent
job at putting in good logs,
you could find a change around that
particular component even if it's spread
across a couple different files.
So that way, you're not just looking at
a specific file, but maybe you're just
looking for a usage of a specific item
throughout the code base over time.
And so you can grab all those things.
Obviously, some of the cons of using logs
is that sometimes you don't know a keyword
to search for, right?
You know there's a bug, but you have no
way you could really look through the logs
to know why or
where that bug change could be.
Commit messages aren't always the best.
I know we all say we're gonna do better,
our good commit messages starts tomorrow,
and then it just doesn't happen.
Sometimes you can't boil it
down to any specific word, or
there's just too many commits to the file,
right?
There could be hundreds of them,
so you're like, okay,
I can't just do a quick check and grab it.
One reason why I tend to just do a quick
log look is let's say it takes two minutes
to test to see if it's good or bad.
And I know the file that is probably in,
I could do a quick log search.
Look at that, there's one change here.
I'll just test this one change, and
if that one is the problem, I'm like,
God, right?
You can just kind of look at the change
and go, okay, this is pretty simple,
I can see exactly why.
So it can be pretty fast.
So you can actually search.
You can search with logs with grep.
But before we do that, we gotta do this,
this little npm i thing, right?
This is a node thing, okay?
So do a little npm i,
are you making fun of me for using npm?
>> No, I have to install npm,
I don't have Node on here.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> [LAUGH]
>> That was amazing.
If you didn't hear, there's someone here
without Node, how great is that based?
You are now the new coolest.
Do you wanna come up here and
be UI- [INAUDIBLE]
>> [LAUGH]
>> You don't have to
participate if you don't want to,
it's pretty easy, it's step-by-step.
>> [LAUGH]
>> You may, all right,
now that we did that.
All right, so next,
try to run test, npm run test.
I actually did Node specifically
cuz I figured there's no
way people aren't gonna
have Node [INAUDIBLE].
[LAUGH] Man,
I can't believe this actually have.
This is so great.
Okay, npm run test.
I didn't wanna be like,
you don't have cargo?
Well, let me tell you about Rust,
I wanna be that guy.
So yet here I am, telling you about Node.
So I intentionally just
put a sleep in here,
so you have to wait 30 seconds to
see if it fails or not, right?
This is real life, right?
This is what happens in real code bases.
It takes a lot longer to figure out
if something is broken or not broken.
So you really don't wanna have to
live this life constantly, right?
Right, thank you for agreeing.
I do appreciate that.
All right, there we go.
One failed test, expected 138,
but we received 140.
Dang, that stinks, right?
You can actually see it right there.
See, I told you,
I'm literally just sleeping right there.
All right, fantastic,
we got that all done.
Observation, we know that
the foo function is failing and
the test foo are failing, right?
So we know that something's wrong
with the function called foo.
So what we can do is we can use, by
the way, I say you can do man git-log and
search the logs.
If you don't know in all the computer
speak, searching is called grep.
These modern Zoomers these days
just use the term search, and
they don't even know about grep,
and grep is fantastic.
So if I told you to go in here and
find search,
you just wouldn't really find the thing
because it may contain the word search,
but none of them actually are grep.
So you gotta use grep, right?
And there you go.
So you can do a grep with the pattern.
And so this is from the log,
you just simply get to look through any of
the commit messages with
the word foo in it.
So that's a strategy we can do.
So I can go git log --grep foo.
And so look at this, this is not
about foo, this is not about foo,
it's kinda hard to search.
I mean, this one sounds pretty suspicious,
altering foo for
new specifications, right?
That sounds pretty good.
What you can also do is
you can actually use -p.
-p also puts the changes in here.
So then you can go, okay, well,
what are all the changes?
And as I search through,
this looks pretty suspect, right?
So learning a thing or two about searching
the logs can be very, very useful.
Because sometimes you can stumble upon
things, or you can look at changes
over time for a specific item, and
it's kinda nice being able to use.
So there we go.
So grep, that's what we're using.
And so we are able to easily find the
problem right here just by looking at it.
Obviously, we know the problem, right?
It's a very trivial problem.
We're two off, and look at this.
I don't know, we times by two, and
that one exactly fits the need.
So we got lucky on that one.
The problem with this is
this is also a lucky search.
So if you're looking to solve a bug,
definitely,
this one error's on the side of luck to
be able to get a good term with a simple
set of changes that you can just look at,
and it's like, there it is.
So I often don't use this,
but every now and then,
I'm like, ooh,
there was this change I did a while back,
and I wanna be able to just go straight
to that change and go look at.
And so I can kinda know in my head
where or how I'm doing something.
So I like searching.
Okay, number two,
you can also search by file.
So we already know that the problem
is in the index file, I think it is.
There's only one file in here.
Yeah, there's only one file.
Okay, so you can go git log and
we'll do a little -p, and
then we can go src/index., is it js or ts?
What are we at?
Yeah, and
then you have to do a little dash dash.
You're gonna only search in
the log with these specific files.
And this will actually get you
the change set only for these files.
That's it, so there's only
been two changes in this file.
And so this is a nice way to be able to
reduce down the change you're looking for
to a file.
You can pass in multiple files,
very, very useful.
You can mix and match, grep and this.
So it's good to have this power with you.
If you use -s,
you can search through the change itself.
So there's a lot of cool
opportunities here with log.
Just so you guys know, it does exist.